README.md, before:

# Job Application Assistant

Job Application Assistant is a full-stack Next.js App Router project that centralizes the job search workflow. It lets candidates maintain a structured professional profile, track applications, and use AI-powered tools to generate resumes, cover letters, and outreach messages.

## Highlights

- Structured profile builder covering personal details, work experience, education, skills, projects, certifications, achievements, and references.
- One-click resume import that runs Mistral OCR to prefill the personal profile form from an uploaded resume.
- Resume library with CRUD, default resume selection, HTML previews, and PDF export using the professional template.
- Job-specific resume tailoring that calls Groq to analyze job descriptions, select relevant content, and produce an A4 PDF with optional manual overrides.
- AI cover letter generator and conversation starter assistant that pull from saved profile/resume data (requires `GROQ_API_KEY`).
- Application tracker and dashboard that surface counts, status breakdowns, and recent activity using Drizzle queries.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15.4 (App Router), React 19, TypeScript 5
- **Data & Auth**: Drizzle ORM + Turso (libSQL), BetterAuth sessions, Zod validators
- **Client**: Tailwind CSS v4, Shadcn UI, Lucide icons, Sonner toasts, React Hook Form, TanStack Query
- **AI & Documents**: Vercel AI SDK with `@ai-sdk/groq` for text generation, Puppeteer for PDF export, AI content selection service for resume tailoring
- **Tooling**: Bun (runtime and script runner), ESLint 9, TypeScript compiler checks, Drizzle Kit migrations

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) 1.1+ (recommended) or npm
- Turso database credentials
- Groq API key for AI functionality
- Mistral API key for resume OCR imports

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ffeew/job-application-assistant
cd job-application-assistant

bun install             # or npm install
cp .env.example .env    # then fill in the values
bun run db:push         # apply the latest Drizzle migrations
bun run dev             # visit http://localhost:3000
```

### Useful scripts

- `bun run dev` – start the Turbopack dev server
- `bun run build` – production build (includes lint and type checks)
- `bun run start` – serve the production build
- `bun run lint` – ESLint
- `bun run typecheck` – TypeScript only
- `bun run db:push` / `bun run db:generate` / `bun run db:studio` – Drizzle Kit helpers
- `bunx drizzle-kit push` – push schema changes directly to Turso if preferred

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Required | Description                                                                      |
| ----------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET`          | Yes      | 32+ character secret used by BetterAuth                                          |
| `BETTER_AUTH_URL`             | Yes      | Server-side auth URL (e.g. `http://localhost:3000`)                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BETTER_AUTH_URL` | Yes      | Client-side auth URL                                                             |
| `TURSO_CONNECTION_URL`        | Yes      | libSQL connection string from Turso                                              |
| `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN`            | Yes      | Turso auth token                                                                 |
| `GROQ_API_KEY`                | Yes\*    | Groq API key used for resume tailoring, cover letters, and conversation starters |
| `GROQ_MODEL`                  | No       | Optional Groq model override; defaults to `openai/gpt-oss-120b`                  |
| `MISTRAL_API_KEY`             | Yes\*    | Mistral OCR API key used to import resumes into the profile form                 |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL`         | No       | Optional absolute app URL used in client code                                    |
| `NODE_ENV`                    | No       | Defaults to `development`                                                        |
| `PORT`                        | No       | Server port, defaults to `3000`                                                  |

\*AI-powered routes return errors if the corresponding key is missing (Groq for content generation, Mistral for resume imports).

## Project structure

- `src/app`
  - Feature folders (e.g., `dashboard/applications`) colocate page components, supporting UI pieces, and TanStack Query `queries/` + `mutations/` so data hooks live beside the screens they power.
  - `src/app/dashboard/profile` keeps `page.tsx` alongside profile-specific components (forms, lists) and data hooks for CRUD.
  - API routes live under `src/app/api/<feature>/`; for instance, `src/app/api/resume-generation/route.ts` handles HTTP, delegates to `service.ts`, and trusts Zod schemas from `validators.ts` to validate requests and share types with the front end.
- `src/components` — Shared UI primitives (shadcn/ui wrappers, buttons, inputs, skeletons) that stay presentation-only.
- `src/lib` — Back-end glue: `env.ts` for Zod-based env validation, `db/` for Drizzle + Turso schema/client, `auth.ts` for BetterAuth, resume templates, utility helpers, and the validator re-exports.
- `middleware.ts` — BetterAuth session checks for protected routes.
- `migrations/` — Drizzle-generated SQL kept in lockstep with schema changes.
- `components.json`, `public/`, `drizzle.config.ts`, `tsconfig.json`, etc. — framework configuration and static assets.

## Feature overview

### Authentication & access control

- BetterAuth email/password flows with sign-in, sign-up, password reset, and middleware-protected dashboard routes.
- `src/lib/auth.ts` and `middleware.ts` enforce session checks on server requests.

### Profile management

- Eight profile sections (personal info, work experience, education, skills, projects, certifications, achievements, references) with React Hook Form + Zod validation.
- Personal info card includes a resume uploader that calls `/api/profile/resume-import` to run Mistral OCR and prefill the form when `MISTRAL_API_KEY` is configured.
- CRUD flows implemented with TanStack Query (`queries/` and `mutations/` folders) and Drizzle-backed API routes.

### Resume tooling

- Resume list with default selection and JSON storage of resume content.
- `/dashboard/resumes/generate` builds a resume from profile content and exports PDF/HTML via Puppeteer using the `professional` template.
- General resume generation currently ships with the professional template; additional templates can be added under `src/lib/resume-templates/`.

### Job-specific resume tailoring

- `/dashboard/applications/[id]/resume` uses job descriptions plus Groq (`AIContentSelectionService`) to score and select relevant profile entries.
- Supports configurable limits, preview rendering, A4 PDF export, and manual overrides when AI output needs tweaks.

### AI cover letters & conversation starters

- Cover letters (`src/app/api/cover-letters/service.ts`) generate drafts with Groq and store edits alongside application/resume references.
- Conversation starters combine profile and default resume context to craft outreach messages.
- Both features surface clear errors if the Groq key is missing to encourage graceful fallbacks.

### Application tracking & dashboard

- CRUD for job applications with status, notes, job description, and recruiter info.
- Dashboard aggregates counts, offer rate, and recent activity via dedicated queries under `dashboard/queries`.

## Architecture notes

- Each API feature lives in `src/app/api/<feature>/` with `route.ts`, `service.ts`, and Zod validators to keep handlers thin.
- Drizzle ORM interacts with Turso via `src/lib/db/db.ts`; migrations are tracked in `/migrations` and configured in `drizzle.config.ts`.
- Front-end data access is handled through co-located `queries` and `mutations` that wrap REST endpoints with TanStack Query.
- `@/lib/validators` re-exports schema types so client code can stay type-safe.
- Resume PDFs are generated server-side with Puppeteer; previews reuse the same HTML with additional styling.

## Database & migrations

- Update the schema in `src/lib/db/schema/`, then run `bun run db:generate` to create SQL migrations.
- Apply changes locally with `bun run db:push`; use `bunx drizzle-kit push` to push to Turso once ready.
- Keep the generated SQL in `migrations/` under version control.

## Quality checks & testing

- Run `bun run lint` and `bun run typecheck` before opening a pull request. Both commands are required and run automatically during `bun run build`.
- There are currently no automated tests; add `*.test.ts(x)` files next to the code when introducing critical logic.

## Contributing

- Review the contributor playbook in `AGENTS.md` for coding standards, naming conventions, and review expectations.
- Keep commits focused and include migrations alongside schema changes.

## License

No license file is included. Contact the maintainers before reusing or distributing this code.

Commit message:

Add review workflow for resume import
   Imported profile data from OCR is now staged for user review before saving.
   Each section (work history, education, skills, etc.) shows pending imports
   that users can accept, edit, or dismiss individually.

README.md, after:

# Job Application Assistant

Job Application Assistant is a full-stack Next.js App Router project that centralizes the job search workflow. It lets candidates maintain a structured professional profile, track applications, and use AI-powered tools to generate resumes, cover letters, and outreach messages.

## Highlights

- Structured profile builder covering personal details, work experience, education, skills, projects, certifications, achievements, and references.
- One-click resume import that runs Mistral OCR to prefill personal details and stage suggested entries for work history, education, skills, and more—review everything before saving.
- Resume library with CRUD, default resume selection, HTML previews, and PDF export using the professional template.
- Job-specific resume tailoring that calls Groq to analyze job descriptions, select relevant content, and produce an A4 PDF with optional manual overrides.
- AI cover letter generator and conversation starter assistant that pull from saved profile/resume data (requires `GROQ_API_KEY`).
- Application tracker and dashboard that surface counts, status breakdowns, and recent activity using Drizzle queries.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15.4 (App Router), React 19, TypeScript 5
- **Data & Auth**: Drizzle ORM + Turso (libSQL), BetterAuth sessions, Zod validators
- **Client**: Tailwind CSS v4, Shadcn UI, Lucide icons, Sonner toasts, React Hook Form, TanStack Query
- **AI & Documents**: Vercel AI SDK with `@ai-sdk/groq` for text generation, Puppeteer for PDF export, AI content selection service for resume tailoring
- **Tooling**: Bun (runtime and script runner), ESLint 9, TypeScript compiler checks, Drizzle Kit migrations

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- [Bun](https://bun.sh/) 1.1+ (recommended) or npm
- Turso database credentials
- Groq API key for AI functionality
- Mistral API key for resume OCR imports

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ffeew/job-application-assistant
cd job-application-assistant

bun install             # or npm install
cp .env.example .env    # then fill in the values
bun run db:push         # apply the latest Drizzle migrations
bun run dev             # visit http://localhost:3000
```

### Useful scripts

- `bun run dev` – start the Turbopack dev server
- `bun run build` – production build (includes lint and type checks)
- `bun run start` – serve the production build
- `bun run lint` – ESLint
- `bun run typecheck` – TypeScript only
- `bun run db:push` / `bun run db:generate` / `bun run db:studio` – Drizzle Kit helpers
- `bunx drizzle-kit push` – push schema changes directly to Turso if preferred

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Required | Description                                                                      |
| ----------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET`          | Yes      | 32+ character secret used by BetterAuth                                          |
| `BETTER_AUTH_URL`             | Yes      | Server-side auth URL (e.g. `http://localhost:3000`)                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BETTER_AUTH_URL` | Yes      | Client-side auth URL                                                             |
| `TURSO_CONNECTION_URL`        | Yes      | libSQL connection string from Turso                                              |
| `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN`            | Yes      | Turso auth token                                                                 |
| `GROQ_API_KEY`                | Yes\*    | Groq API key used for resume tailoring, cover letters, and conversation starters |
| `GROQ_MODEL`                  | No       | Optional Groq model override; defaults to `openai/gpt-oss-120b`                  |
| `MISTRAL_API_KEY`             | Yes\*    | Mistral OCR API key used to import resumes into the profile form                 |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL`         | No       | Optional absolute app URL used in client code                                    |
| `NODE_ENV`                    | No       | Defaults to `development`                                                        |
| `PORT`                        | No       | Server port, defaults to `3000`                                                  |

\*AI-powered routes return errors if the corresponding key is missing (Groq for content generation, Mistral for resume imports).

## Project structure

- `src/app`
  - Feature folders (e.g., `dashboard/applications`) colocate page components, supporting UI pieces, and TanStack Query `queries/` + `mutations/` so data hooks live beside the screens they power.
  - `src/app/dashboard/profile` keeps `page.tsx` alongside profile-specific components (forms, lists) and data hooks for CRUD.
  - API routes live under `src/app/api/<feature>/`; for instance, `src/app/api/resume-generation/route.ts` handles HTTP, delegates to `service.ts`, and trusts Zod schemas from `validators.ts` to validate requests and share types with the front end.
- `src/components` — Shared UI primitives (shadcn/ui wrappers, buttons, inputs, skeletons) that stay presentation-only.
- `src/lib` — Back-end glue: `env.ts` for Zod-based env validation, `db/` for Drizzle + Turso schema/client, `auth.ts` for BetterAuth, resume templates, utility helpers, and the validator re-exports.
- `middleware.ts` — BetterAuth session checks for protected routes.
- `migrations/` — Drizzle-generated SQL kept in lockstep with schema changes.
- `components.json`, `public/`, `drizzle.config.ts`, `tsconfig.json`, etc. — framework configuration and static assets.

## Feature overview

### Authentication & access control

- BetterAuth email/password flows with sign-in, sign-up, password reset, and middleware-protected dashboard routes.
- `src/lib/auth.ts` and `middleware.ts` enforce session checks on server requests.

### Profile management

- Eight profile sections (personal info, work experience, education, skills, projects, certifications, achievements, references) with React Hook Form + Zod validation.
- Personal info card includes a resume uploader that calls `/api/profile/resume-import` to run Mistral OCR and prefill the form when `MISTRAL_API_KEY` is configured.
- CRUD flows implemented with TanStack Query (`queries/` and `mutations/` folders) and Drizzle-backed API routes.

### Resume tooling

- Resume list with default selection and JSON storage of resume content.
- `/dashboard/resumes/generate` builds a resume from profile content and exports PDF/HTML via Puppeteer using the `professional` template.
- General resume generation currently ships with the professional template; additional templates can be added under `src/lib/resume-templates/`.

### Job-specific resume tailoring

- `/dashboard/applications/[id]/resume` uses job descriptions plus Groq (`AIContentSelectionService`) to score and select relevant profile entries.
- Supports configurable limits, preview rendering, A4 PDF export, and manual overrides when AI output needs tweaks.

### AI cover letters & conversation starters

- Cover letters (`src/app/api/cover-letters/service.ts`) generate drafts with Groq and store edits alongside application/resume references.
- Conversation starters combine profile and default resume context to craft outreach messages.
- Both features surface clear errors if the Groq key is missing to encourage graceful fallbacks.

### Application tracking & dashboard

- CRUD for job applications with status, notes, job description, and recruiter info.
- Dashboard aggregates counts, offer rate, and recent activity via dedicated queries under `dashboard/queries`.

## Architecture notes

- Each API feature lives in `src/app/api/<feature>/` with `route.ts`, `service.ts`, and Zod validators to keep handlers thin.
- Drizzle ORM interacts with Turso via `src/lib/db/db.ts`; migrations are tracked in `/migrations` and configured in `drizzle.config.ts`.
- Front-end data access is handled through co-located `queries` and `mutations` that wrap REST endpoints with TanStack Query.
- `@/lib/validators` re-exports schema types so client code can stay type-safe.
- Resume PDFs are generated server-side with Puppeteer; previews reuse the same HTML with additional styling.

## Database & migrations

- Update the schema in `src/lib/db/schema/`, then run `bun run db:generate` to create SQL migrations.
- Apply changes locally with `bun run db:push`; use `bunx drizzle-kit push` to push to Turso once ready.
- Keep the generated SQL in `migrations/` under version control.

## Quality checks & testing

- Run `bun run lint` and `bun run typecheck` before opening a pull request. Both commands are required and run automatically during `bun run build`.
- There are currently no automated tests; add `*.test.ts(x)` files next to the code when introducing critical logic.

## Contributing

- Review the contributor playbook in `AGENTS.md` for coding standards, naming conventions, and review expectations.
- Keep commits focused and include migrations alongside schema changes.

## License

No license file is included. Contact the maintainers before reusing or distributing this code.
